# W3PM Nano 33 IOT Universal MEPT
Modes: WSPR , FST4W, FT8, CW, QRSS  
Timing: WiFi, GPS, RTC

(Updated to use Gaussian pulse width shaping and calibrated symbol timing for FT8 and FST4W. 
The FST4W modes require high frequency stability, especially when using the slower modes above 630m.
GPSDO transmit stability is recommended for FST4W HF operation)


The GitHub files contain archival information about a circuit board developed by Doug, K4CLE 
(Figure 3 of the .pdf). At this point in time he is unable to provide any populated or un-populated boards. 
He may be contacted at “doug at k4cle dot com” for any questions concerning the board.

The project is based individual circuit cards as shown in Figure 1 of the .pdf. The building blocks 
for this project consist of an Arduino Nano 33 IOT microcontroller, a Si5351A clock generator breakout 
board, DS3231 real time clock (RTC) board , GPS receiver, and a 0.96 inch 128x64 serial I2C OLED display 
board. The Si535a, DS3231, and OLED boards communicate with the Nano 33 IOT microcontroller over an I2C 
bus using only three wires. The boards were chosen because they are highly capable, inexpensive, well 
documented, and available over the internet from a wide variety of vendors.

The Nano 33 IOT features WiFi connectivity, 448 KB of ROM, 520KB SRAM , 2MB Flash and a SAMD21
Cortex®-M0+ 32bit low power ARM MCU running at 48 MHz. This allows far more project flexibility to
develop a multifaceted MEPT project.

The unit draws little power and can be powered by a USB cable connected to a computer, a USB charger, 
or by some 5V USB battery backup chargers. Alternately, you can use a 7-21VDC source connected to the 
Arduino Nano 33 IOT’s “VIN” pin. The 3.3 volt output pin “3V3” is capable of supplying 600 mA which 
easily powers all of the peripheral boards.

This project relies heavily on timer accuracy derived from the Nano 33 IOT 48 MHz clock. Unfortunately, the
board is not crystal controlled and relies on an LC oscillator. To overcome this shortcoming a correction factor
is generated by comparing the millisecond timer to a 1pps output from the high accuracy DS3231 Real Time
Clock.

EEPROM is not available on the Nano 33 IOT. The sketch for the project uses the FlashStorage_SAMD library
to emulate EEPROM storage using flash memory. The K4CLE board uses an on board EEPROM IC so a
modified sketch is included in the files.

Timing is derived from a DS3231 real time clock (RTC), GPS receiver, or WiFi. If WiFi or GPS timing is not
selected or interrupted, the unit defaults to RTC timing. RTC timing is less accurate. The builder may
anticipate an uncertainty of about 2 parts per million from 0 – 40 degrees C (32 to 104 degrees F) which will
allow WSPR operation for about two weeks without correction. The GPS receiver may be omitted if the builder
prefers WiFi or RTC timing.

All the necessary parameters required for operation can be changed by using 5 pushbuttons.

An antenna tune function is included. Although it will not provide the actual SWR reading, it will serve as an
indicator to let you know when the antenna is tuned to a nominal 50 ohm impedance.

NOTE: Ensure your project uses the DS3231SN. Some vendors substitute the DS3231M version which is not as
accurate as the “N” version
